Add ERC4337 Accounts docs (#40)
OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-community-contracts: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/account-abstraction.adoc

= Account Abstraction

Unlike Externally Owned Accounts (EOAs), smart contracts may contain arbitrary verification logic based on authentication mechanisms different to Ethereum's native xref:api:utils.adoc#ECDSA[ECDSA] and have execution advantages such as batching or gas sponsorship. To leverage these properties of smart contracts, the community has widely adopted https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-4337[ERC-4337], a standard to process user operations through an alternative mempool.

> The library provides multiple contracts for Account Abstraction following this standard as it enables more flexible and user-friendly interactions with applications. Account Abstraction use cases include wallets in novel contexts (e.g. embedded wallets), more granular configuration of accounts and recovery mechanisms. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The library provides multiple contracts for Account Abstraction following this standard as it enables more flexible and user-friendly interactions with applications. Account Abstraction use cases include wallets in novel contexts (e.g. embedded wallets), more granular configuration of accounts, and recovery mechanisms. 
```

These capabilities can be supercharged with a modularity approach following standards such as https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7579[ERC-7579] or https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-6909[ERC-6909].

== Smart Accounts

OpenZeppelin provides an abstract xref:api:account.adoc#AccountCore[`AccountCore`] contract that implements the basic logic to handle user operations in compliance with ERC-4337. Developers who want to build their own account can use this to bootstrap.

User operations are validated using an xref:api:utils.adoc#AbstractSigner[`AbstractSigner`], which requires to implement the internal xref:api:utils.adoc#AbstractSigner-_rawSignatureValidation[`_rawSignatureValidation`] function. This is the lowest-level signature validation layer and is used to wrap other validation methods like the Account's xref:api:account.adoc#AccountCore-validateUserOp-struct-PackedUserOperation-bytes32-uint256-[`validateUserOp`].

> A more opinionated version is the xref:api:account.adoc#Account[`Account`] contract, which also inherits from:

Reviewer: What does it inherit? Also I prefer to not have the phrase "inherits from." From is extraneous.

Author: It inherits `ERC7739Signer`, `AccountERC7821`, `ERC721Holder` and `ERC115Holder`

We can rephrase it

Reviewer: Oh I understand. I didn't realize the bullet points.

> * xref:api:utils.adoc#ERC7739Signer[ERC7739Signer]: An implementation of the https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1271[ERC-1271] interface for smart contract signatures. This layer adds a defensive rehashing mechanism that prevents signatures for this account to be replayed in another controlled by the same signer. See xref:account-abstraction.adoc#erc7739_signatures[ERC-7739 signatures].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* xref:api:utils.adoc#ERC7739Signer[ERC7739Signer]: An implementation of the https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1271[ERC-1271] interface for smart contract signatures. This layer adds a defensive rehashing mechanism that prevents signatures for this account to be replayed in another account controlled by the same signer. See xref:account-abstraction.adoc#erc7739_signatures[ERC-7739 signatures].
```
Is this what you mean?

Author: Yes!

* https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/api/token/erc721#AccountERC7821[AccountERC7821]: An extension that provides the minimal logic batch multiple calls in a single execution. Useful to execute multiple operations within a single user operation.

> * https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/api/token/erc721#ERC721Holder[ERC721Holder], https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/api/token/erc721#ERC721Holder[ERC1155Holder]: Allows the account to hold https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-721[ERC-721] and https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1155[ERC-1155] tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/api/token/erc721#ERC721Holder[ERC721Holder], https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/api/token/erc1155#ERC1155Holder[ERC1155Holder]: Allows the account to hold https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-721[ERC-721] and https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1155[ERC-1155] tokens.
```

=== Selecting a signer

The library includes specializations of the `AbstractSigner` contract that use custom digital signature verification algorithms. These are xref:api:utils.adoc#SignerECDSA[`SignerECDSA`], xref:api:utils.adoc#SignerP256[`SignerP256`] and xref:api:utils.adoc#SignerRSA[`SignerRSA`].

Since smart accounts are deployed by a factory, the best practice is to create https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/5.x/api/proxy#minimal_clones[minimal clones] of initializable contracts. These signer implementations provide an initializable design by default so that the factory can interact with the account to set it up after deployment in a single transaction.

WARNING: Leaving an account uninitialized may leave it unusable since no public key was associated with it.

[source,solidity]
----
include::api:example$account/MyAccountECDSA.sol[]
----

NOTE: xref:api:account.adoc#Account[`Account`] initializes xref:api:utils.adoc#EIP712[`EIP712`] to generate a domain separator that prevents replayability in other accounts controlled by the same key. See xref:account-abstraction.adoc#erc7739_signatures[ERC-7739 signatures]

> Along with the regular EOA signature verification, the library also provides the xref:api:account.adoc#SignerP256[`SignerP256`] for P256 signatures, a widely used _elliptic curve_ verification algorithm that's present in mobile device security enclaves, FIDO keys, and corporate environments (i.e. public key infrastructures).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Along with the regular EOA signature verification, the library also provides the xref:api:utils.adoc#SignerP256[`SignerP256`] for P256 signatures, a widely used _elliptic curve_ verification algorithm that's present in mobile device security enclaves, FIDO keys, and corporate environments (i.e. public key infrastructures).
```

----

== Account Factory

The first time a user sends an user operation, the account will be created deterministically (i.e. its code and address can be predicted) using the the `initCode` field in the UserOperation. This field contains both the address of a smart contract (the factory) and the data required to call it and deploy the smart account.

For this purpose, developers can create an account factory using the https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/5.x/api/proxy#Clones[Clones library from OpenZeppelin Contracts]. It exposes methods to calculate the address of an account before deployment.

[source,solidity]
----
include::api:example$account/MyFactoryAccount.sol[]
----

You've setup your own account and its corresponding factory. Both are ready to be used with ERC-4337 infrastructure. Customizing the factory to other validation mechanisms must be straightforward.

== ERC-4337 Overview

The ERC-4337 is a detailed specification of how to implement the necessary logic to handle operations without making changes to the protocol level (i.e. the rules of the blockchain itself). This specification defines the following components:

=== UserOperation

> An `UserOperation` is a higher-layer pseudo-transaction object that represents the intent of the account. This shares some similarities with regular EVM transactions like the concept of `gasFees` or `callData` but includes fields that enable new capabilities.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `UserOperation` is a higher-layer pseudo-transaction object that represents the intent of the account. This shares some similarities with regular EVM transactions like the concept of `gasFees` or `callData` but includes fields that enable new capabilities.

```

    bytes callData;
    bytes32 accountGasLimits; // concatenation of verificationGas (16 bytes) and callGas (16 bytes)
    uint256 preVerificationGas;
    bytes32 gasFees; // concatenation of maxPriorityFee (16 bytes) and maxFeePerGas (16 bytes)
    bytes paymasterAndData; // concatenation of paymaster fields (or empty)
    bytes signature;
}
```

=== Entrypoint

Each `UserOperation` is executed through a contract known as the https://etherscan.io/address/0x0000000071727de22e5e9d8baf0edac6f37da032#code[`EntryPoint`]. This contract is a singleton deployed across multiple networks at the same address although other custom implementations may be used.

The Entrypoint contracts is considered a trusted entity by the account.

=== Bundlers

The bundler is a piece of _offchain_ infrastructure that is in charge of processing an alternative mempool of user operations. Bundlers themselves call the Entrypoint contract's `handleOps` function with an array of UserOperations that are executed and included in a block.

During the process, the bundler pays for the gas of executing the transaction and gets refunded during the execution phase of the Entrypoint contract.

=== Account Contract

> The Account Contract is a type of smart contract implements the logic required to validate an `UserOperation` in the context of ERC-4337. Any smart contract account should conform with the `IAccount` interface to validate operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Account Contract is a smart contract that implements the logic required to validate a `UserOperation` in the context of ERC-4337. Any smart contract account should conform with the `IAccount` interface to validate operations.
```
Like this?
